# Stochastic Block Model Graphs

We consider graphs generated by the stochastic block model (Wang and Wong, 1987). 
The specific generation of graphs is described by the following process:
Let $T$ be some random tree of a predefined size.
Create two (non-isomorphic) graphs $G_1,G_2$ by adding a new edge to $T$.
To ensure that the classification task is non-trivial, we require that $G_1$ and $G_2$ have the same multiset of vertex degrees.
We then generate a set of graphs for each $G \in G_1,G_2$ by repeating the following process:
Let $\widehat{G}$ be the empty graph.

1. For each $v \in G$, add a set of $c$ vertices $v_1,...,v_c$ to $\widehat{G}$.
2. For each $v \in G$, connect pairs $\{v_i,v_j\} \in V(\widehat{G})$ by an edge with probability $p$.
3. For all pairs $\{v_i,u_j\} \in V(\widehat{G})$ with $\{v,u\} \in E(G)$, connect them by an edge with probability $p$, as well.
4. Connect a number of $m_x$ prior unconnected vertex pairs $\{v_i,u_j\}$ in $\widehat{G}$ as noise edges. 

The resulting classification task is to assign the generated graph $\widehat{G}$ to the underlying graph structure $G \in G_1,G_2$. 
The figure depicts an example of two such generated graphs.  

![Graphs generated by slightly different underlying structures (depicted in grey). Each block in the
underlying structure contains 3 vertices. Two vertices are connected by an edge with some probability p if
they belong to the same block or their blocks are connected in the underlying structure (depicted by solid
black lines). Furthermore, both graphs additionally contain mx = 4 noise edges (depicted by dashed red
lines)](blockgraphs.png)

All datasets considered in the evaluation of (Schulz et al., 2022) were created starting with a random tree of size $16$ which was extended by a single random edge resulting in graphs $G_1,G_2$.
For each classification task we generated $200$ random graphs for each $G \in G_1,G_2$. 
The number of vertices $c$ contained in a block was set to $8$ in all experiments. 
For each set of parameter choices, we generated $5$ datasets and provide the mean accuracy. 



## References

- Yuchung J. Wang  and  George Y. Wong (1987): *Stochastic blockmodels for directed graphs.* Journal of the American Statistical Association, 82(397), 8–19.
- Till Schulz, Tamas Horvath, Pascal Welke, Stefan Wrobel (2022): *A Generalized Weisfeiler-Lehman Graph Kernel.* Machine Learning. [https://doi.org/10.1007/s10994-022-06131-w](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10994-022-06131-w)

# Installation and Requirements

The file in this repository requires the `networkx` library and can then be used as a standalone script.

# Usage

The script produces output in the file format that is used by the [TUDataset](https://chrsmrrs.github.io/datasets/).


'''
	Blockgraph Dataset Generator

	optional arguments:
	  -h, --help   show this help message and exit
	  --name NAME  Name of output file(s)
	  --N N        Number of graphs per class
	  --n N        Number of blocks
	  --c C        Size of blocks
	  --p P        Edge probability
	  --m M        Number of noise edges
	  --seed SEED  Random seed
'''


# Reference

If you use this generator in any of your work, please cite our article:

Till Schulz, Tamas Horvath, Pascal Welke, Stefan Wrobel:  A generalized Weisfeiler-Lehman graph kernel. Mach Learn (2022). [https://doi.org/10.1007/s10994-022-06131-w](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10994-022-06131-w)

